[Music]
the ten biggest sharks to ever exist on
earth few things terrify people less
than sharks quick and Sharptooth
these predators often appear in the
nightmares of beachgoers at the same
time the dangers that sharks present
fascinate people dozens of films depict
these bloodthirsty and formidable
creatures people marvel at their power
strength and size indeed their size can
be really impressive are you ready to
greet the ten biggest sharks that have
existed on earth then pluck up all your
courage and don't lean too close to the
screen you know just in case before you
dive into the depths of the ocean to
explore the world of huge sharks
press the red subscription button and
read the notification bow this way
you'll always be the first to find out
about the latest updates on the bright
side of life
great white shark 23 feet long the
average length of a great white is 23
feet however the largest shark people
have come across was 26 feet long Wow
that's half the length of a basketball
court despite such an impressive size
great white sharks can move at a speed
of 35 miles per hour which is really
fast for underwater traffic the bite of
a great white has a terrifying force of
1.8 tons per square inch that's 10 times
more forceful than a lion's bite as for
the teeth themselves a great white has
five rows of teeth each row contains 46
teeth and each tooth is of a size
similar to a human palm with the length
of 3.5 inches by the way these guys
don't ever get cavities hundreds of
teeth can fall out and regrow within a
shark's lifetime lucky them female
sharks grow to be much larger than males
at maturity a great white can reach a
weight of a thousand five hundred to
2,400 pounds and now brace yourself the
heaviest great white shark on record
weighed an epic seven thousand 328
pounds there's almost no place on earth
where you won't have an opportunity to
meet a great white shark these animals
hunt along the coasts of all the
continents well except for Antarctica as
the water there is too cold the
temperature great whites prefer ranges
from 54 degrees Fahrenheit this
five degrees Fahrenheit but if you're
really eager to make the acquaintance of
a great white shark come to Dyer Island
in South Africa this place is also
called shark alley and since most great
white sharks choose exactly this
location for life you can see why
researchers are sure that great white
sharks have been roaming the seas for
the last 16 million years perhaps even
more and while scientists used to
believe that a great whites life
expectancy didn't exceed 25 years new
research proves that these predators
typically live up to 70 years Pacific
sleeper shark twenty three point six
feet long Pacific sleeper sharks look
unlike any other shark their body is
shaped like a torpedo
they have a wide blunt head and their
mouth is pretty small the biggest
representatives of this species can grow
as long as 23 feet one more thing that
makes Pacific sleepers stand apart is
their color it's not that silver in
white shade you'd expect from a proper
shark dark gray or even black helps
Pacific sharks blend in with the sunless
depths in which they live in addition
Pacific sleepers have tiny eyes which
are most often colonized by parasites
these nightmarish minuscule creatures
occupy the outer layer of the shark's
eye and munch on the tissue making the
shark's almost blind
luckily they have a perfect sense of
smell to help them not to starve it's
probably obvious that Pacific sharks
live in the Pacific Ocean
but while research is used to think that
this species live only in the north some
of the gigantic predators have been
spotted near Mexico and even Taiwan
tiger shark 24 feet long the tiger shark
is one of the largest shark species in
the world their average length can reach
16 feet but the largest specimen reached
24 feet they can weigh 800 to 1500
pounds which is heavier than the average
horse why exactly are they called tiger
sharks it's because when a baby shark is
born it's covered with dark stripes
resembling those of a tiger
unfortunately this pretty pattern fades
when a shark becomes older just like
their namesakes tiger sharks are
excellent hunters besides using their
perfect eyesight and developed sense of
smell these sharks have one
advantage near their snouts are special
pores filled with a substance that
resembles jelly this substance can sense
electric fields all living beings give
off some kind of electric field thus a
tiger shark can always find its prey the
most unique thing about a tiger shark is
its team they are not just super sharp
and also have saw-like
edges these teeth are so strong that
they could easily bite through a clamp
or a sea turtle uh-oh one more unwanted
image to make our nightmares more
exciting basking shark 39 feet long the
basking shark is the second largest
shark alive today surprisingly you don't
have to scatter away as soon as you see
this bus-sized giant basking sharks are
gentle creatures whose diet consists of
fish eggs plankton and other tiny
organisms basking sharks feed by
filtering water that's why their mouths
are simply colossal adult sharks have 3
foot wide Moz in only one hour a shark
can filter more than 1800 tons of water
through its gills why basking sharks
this name appeared thanks to the habit
these peaceful leviathans have of
lounging near the surface of the water
and seemingly basking in sunlight in
fact soaking up some Sun isn't their
main goal the higher the latitudes are
the more plankton congregates their
whale shark forty feet long if you ever
dreamed of meeting the largest fish in
the world
here you go let us introduce the whale
shark although they are called whale
sharks these creatures have nothing in
common with whales but honestly speaking
they don't resemble your usual shark
either the character of these giants is
docile and calm and they don't present
any real danger to humans whale sharks
can grow to a whopping 46 feet long and
their weight can reach 12 tons just like
basking sharks
whale sharks sieve the tiny marine
organisms through their gills
they also eat small fish squid and krill
does this make whale sharks toothless
not at all in fact each of these
creatures has a mouth full of 3,000 tiny
teeth which in all fairness they don't
use another thing that separates whale
sharks from others is the way they swim
instead of using their tail they move
their body from side to side
well you might be unlucky enough to come
across some of these monsters in our
modern seas and oceans but what about
the real Giants mean sharks that have
become extinct but terrorized marine
inhabitants many centuries ago
cretoxyrhina 25 feet long crete oak
serena is also known as the Ginsu shark
this creature roamed the season oceans a
hundred million years ago in the
Cretaceous period despite this fact they
look pretty similar to modern sharks
these predators reached a weight of a
thousand to 2,000 pounds and could grow
as long as 25 feet they had incredibly
sharp teeth
not unlike knives their fourth there
died included not only fish and smaller
marine animals but also a random
dinosaur for example a tylosaurus owed
us 30 feet long this massive shark
reigned over the oceans 60 to 45 million
years ago Autodesk's could grow up to 30
feet in length and weigh more than 4,000
pounds that's the weight of the average
new car in the US this predator could
also boast razor-sharp four inch long
teeth with the help of these daggers
auto dust feasted on big fish and whales
helicoprion 30 feet long helicoprion was
not only one of the biggest but also one
of the most uncommon prehistoric sharks
it lived about 290 million years ago
these sharks got their name helicoprion
from the greek forked spiral saw thanks
to the highly unusual coils of teeth
lining their jaws those coils tended to
unfurl like a table saw crushing their
prey try to get this image out of your
head now Tyco does 30 feet long Tyco
does which means folded teeth in Greek
lived 90 to 60 million years ago this
was a massive shark that could reach 30
feet in length with a weight that varied
between one and two thousand pounds this
shark was different from other
prehistoric sharks because it had large
teeth which however were flat due to
this fact Tycho das was a bottom-feeder
with a diet of shellfish and mollusks
Megalodon fifty to seventy eight feet
long but the largest of absolutely all
the sharks that have ever lived on this
planet was Megalodon his monster shark
controlled the ocean 26
point three million years ago this shark
got its name big tooth because if it's
terrified at seven-inch long teeth the
average length of this giant was fifty
to seventy eight feet positioned
vertically Megalodon would be as tall as
the White House which is 70 feet tall as
for the weight of this prehistoric shark
it could reach a whopping 100 tons that
is 14 times heavier than a Tyrannosaurus
Rex their diet oh it mostly consisted of
the largest whales
scientists believe that Megalodon became
extinct thanks to a lack of food and the
appearance of new predators who snatched
the remaining food away have you ever
seen a shark tell us about your
experience in the comments below and if
the biggest predators of the oceans have
managed to impress you give us a thumbs
up
[Music]
you